
News
News
RideApart
Motor1.com
Critical Materials
Charging
Sales
All news
Reviews
Car Reviews
First Drives
Test Drives
Everything We Know
Comparisons
Tech Review
All reviews
Features
Lists
Features
Buying Advice
Sponsored
EV 101
Opinion
All Features
Auto Shows
Videos
Photos
Newsletter

SIGN UP FOR FREE
Chime in with article commenting.

Sign In
Sign Up
Home
News
Watch The New Tesla Model 3 Performance Try And Keep Up With The BMW M3: 'It's Staggering'
The Model 3 Performance has come a long way since its inception and has a lot going for it, including its price.
Tesla Model 3 Performance vs. BMW M3 Competition
Photo by: Hagerty
Iulian Dnistran
By: Iulian Dnistran
Nov 23, at 10:00am ET
Share
Comment
Hagerty pits the facelifted Tesla Model 3 Performance against the BMW M3 Competition xDrive.
Both are all-wheel drive four-door sedans.
The BMW M3 is widely regarded as the benchmark in the sports sedan market. And no, your eyes are not deceiving you. Despite this being a website that specializes in writing about battery-powered cars, we need to recognize that BMW has mastered the art of producing a thrilling gas-powered four-door sedan that you can comfortably drive every day and take to the track now and then.

But here’s where the new Tesla Model 3 Performance comes into play. With new tech under the skin, such as better brakes and a fancy suspension, Tesla’s sportiest EV takes things up a notch and promises to be the best all-rounder, period. But is it so? Until we can get our hands on both a BMW M3 Performance xDrive and a Tesla Model 3 Performance, we’ll go by Jason Cammisa’s and Randy Pobst’s words, which were nicely laid out in the Hagerty video embedded below.

As a reminder, Camissa is a bona fide car journalist with two decades of experience reviewing cars, while Pobst is a multiple SCCA World Challenge GT champion.


One of the biggest issues with the previous Model 3 Performance models was their inability to run multiple track laps at full speed without experiencing brake fade or some sort of powertrain limitation due to overheating. Now, though, it looks like Tesla dialed everything just right, with no brake fade after several hot laps in the Track Endurance mode. That said, the Endurance mode limits the EV’s top speed to preserve longevity, and it shows in the lap times.

After 15 minutes of continuous driving, the BMW M3 Competition was over 5,000 feet ahead of the Tesla Model 3 Performance, so there’s still work to be done. In a single-lap shootout, the M3 was also quicker than the Model 3, but by less than two seconds, with the EV’s biggest drawback being its tires.

Gallery: Tesla Model 3 Performance 2024
Tesla Model 3 Performance 2024
91
As a daily driver, though, the Model 3 Performance is a great sports-oriented car, not just EV. The infotainment is great, although it doesn’t have Apple CarPlay, and the charging experience is excellent. However, the fact that there are no steering column stalks makes the Model 3 “dangerous,” according to Cammisa.

At the end of the day, however, the biggest issue is the price. The 2025 BMW M3 Sedan with rear-wheel drive and 473 horsepower starts at $76,000. Upgrading to the M3 Competition with xDrive all-wheel drive and 523 hp ups the price to $85,000. Add some options and you’ll soon pass the $100,000 mark.

Meanwhile, the Tesla Model 3 Performance, with dual-motor all-wheel drive and 510 hp, starts at $54,990. But, unlike BMW, Tesla doesn’t really sell optional extras, so what you see is what you get.

Is the BMW worth the extra $20,000 to $50,000? It’s a tough question to answer. Camissa said one could buy a Tesla Model 3 Performance and a Mazda Miata for the same price as a single BMW M3, which things into perspective. What’s your take?

Share this Story
Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com
Join the conversation
Trending
Ownership Experience
What's it like to own an EV?

Buying Tips
Need some EV buying advice?

Deals
Discover deals on EVs here.

latest articles

Mercedes Reinvents Brakes For EVs, Puts Them Inside The Drive Unit
16h ago
-
News
Mercedes Wants EV Battery Packs With Both NMC And LFP Cells
16h ago
-
Battery Tech
Over 40% Of Tesla's Profit Comes From Selling Regulatory Credits
17h ago
-
Industry Outlook
Hyundai, Kia Recall Over 200,000 EVs Because They Might Lose Power While Driving
20h ago
-
Recalls
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

alt
The Base Tesla Model Y Lease Price Is Now The Same As The Base Model 3

alt
Mercedes Reinvents Brakes For EVs, Puts Them Inside The Drive Unit

alt
Hertz's Tesla Fire Sale Continues As Depreciation Costs Mount

alt
Mercedes Wants EV Battery Packs With Both NMC And LFP Cells

alt
The Best Tesla Alternatives In 2024

alt
Over 40% Of Tesla's Profit Comes From Selling Regulatory Credits

alt
How Much Does A Tesla Cost? Model By Model Price Breakdown

Subscribe to our Newsletter
Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Facebook
X
Flipboard
Google News
YouTube
RSS
About Us
Advertising
Contact
insideEVs
650 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
USA
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of use

