
News
News
Off Road
Electric Motorcycles
Sportbikes
Racing
Standard & Naked
All news
Reviews
Reviews
Gear
All reviews
Features
Data Deep Dives
Positions
Riding On the Wrong Side
Rants
Repair & Maintenance
Cycleweird
All Features
Videos
Photos
Newsletter

SIGN UP FOR FREE
Chime in with article commenting.

Sign In
Sign Up
Home
News
Japan’s Big Four + Toyota’s HySE Project Is a Badass Hydrogen-Powered UTV
It’s set to dominate the 2025 Dakar Rally.
Japan’s Big Four + Toyota’s HySE Project Is A Badass Hydrogen-Powered UTV
Photo by: Toyota
Enrico Punsalang
By: Enrico Punsalang
Nov 20, at 11:10am ET
Share
Comment
What do Yamaha, Kawasaki, Suzuki, Honda, and Toyota have in common? Well, clearly, they’re all Japanese, and they’re among the biggest brands in their respective industries. They’re also paragons of reliability, with the Japanese Big Four’s bikes all known for being capable of surpassing six-digit odometers. And as for Toyota, well, its vehicles have proven to be pretty much indestructible.

And so when these five companies collaborated to pretty much define the future of mobility, you can bet that the world was watching and that they were gonna come up with something pretty damn huge.

Indeed, it seems that they did not disappoint, as the HySE project is gearing up to tackle the 2025 Dakar Rally head on. The collaborative project will participate in the Dakar Rally’s new Mission 1000 category which focuses on new mobility technology such as electric, hydrogen, and hybrid vehicles.

As for HySE, well, the vehicle in question is nothing short of badass, and could very well be a glimpse into the future not just of off-road racing, but of mobility as a whole. The badass off-road racer is a crossover between multiple worlds, the perfect exercise of how powers can come together to produce something so much bigger than anyone thought.


Under the hood, the HySE project is powered by a 998cc inline-four engine powered by none other than hydrogen. This engine configuration is nothing new, in fact, the team is using a Kawasaki engine—presumably one from a ZX-10R—that’s been heavily modified to be powered by hydrogen.

On paper, the specs are nothing short of impressive, with 150 horsepower on tap and 200 Nm (around 148 pound-feet) of torque. The thing will power a bonkers off-road racing machine that sort of looks like an overgrown side-by-side. It boasts long-travel suspension with tons of articulation to handle big jumps and high-speed sections, as well as knobby all-terrain tires that’ll make munching mile after mile of desert trail a walk in the park for this thing.

Should this thing prove to be even more of a success than it already is, it just might pave the way for the future of engines. Heck, this might actually be the closest thing we have to securing the future of internal combustion. Forever.

Not to put pressure on Yamaha, Honda, Suzuki, Kawasaki, and Toyota, but the future of internal combustion is literally in your hands.


Source: Toyota

Share this Story
Got a tip for us? Email: tips@rideapart.com
Join the conversation
Commenting Guidelines
Trending
The Rawrr Wheelie Helper Proves Kids Get All the Best Stuff
I just can't understand why there aren't more models like this for adults.

Scumbag Car Thief Gets Sweet Justice, Discovers Stolen Motorcycle in the Back
If you're all about that sweet, sweet justice, then this is a two-for-one.

You Need To Read DJI's Lawsuit Against The US DoD, Grab Some Popcorn
It's a point-by-point refutation in the cattiest, pettiest legalese, and it's hilarious.

latest articles

Honda’s Taking Solid-State EV Batteries Seriously, Hopefully Ends with Motorcycles
1m ago
-
Electric Motorcycles
Can-Am Will Knock $3,000 Off a New Maverick R Right Now
22h ago
-
UTV
Should You Buy a Motorcycle In a Box Off The Internet?
23h ago
-
Skills
Is This The Cheapest Liter-Class Adventure Motorcycle?
8:04am
-
Adventure & Dual-Sport
This Tiny Commuter Bike Has To Be the Most Unlikely Cool Naked Sportbike
7:57am
-
Standard & Naked
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Facebook
X
Google News
Instagram
RSS
About Us
Advertising
Contact
rideapart
650 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
USA
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of use

