Skip to main content
Go to the Electrek home page
Switch site
Toggle social menu
Toggle dark mode
Toggle search form
Exclusives
Autos
Alt. Transport
Autonomy
Energy
Tesla Shop
Store
Rivian
Rivian electric truck saves the day by pulling semi truck stuck in mud
Avatar for Fred Lambert
Fred Lambert
 | Nov 22 2024 - 10:44 am PT
11 Comments
Rivian electric pickup saving the day
A Rivian R1T electric pickup truck saved the day this week by pulling a semi-truck stuck in the mud in Covington, Kentucky.

There are still many people who believe that electric pickup trucks will never take a significant market share of the truck because they can’t do “truck things.”

It’s true that towing range can still be an issue for some people who tow long distances, 300 miles, but that is likely to go away as battery energy density continue to improve. Other than that, it’s hard to find a downside of electric pickup trucks.

Despite still being a new segment of the auto industry being electrified, the early electric pickup trucks are already performing well on virtually all metrics.

We get a great example with this Rivian R1T in Covington, Kentucky.

Earlier this week, Ken Kring, a former Rivian engineer and current Director of EV Operations at Tire Discounters, saw a curious scene with emergency vehicles in front of his place.

It turns out that it was a semi-truck that got stuck in the mud and was blocking his street.

Top comment by Jeff S. Liked by 14 people
Not only does this showcase the abilities of Rivian’s vehicles, but also it’s a former Rivian employee who turned out to be the Good Samaritan. I love this story!

View all comments
Ken has a Rivian R1T Quad Motor with 1,198 lb-ft of torque and over 1,000 hp. With a four-electric motor beast, he felt like he could probably freed the semi truck, and he did.

He wrote on LinkedIn:

With the driver’s permission, I pulled out my Rivian R1T’s tow gear (freshly unpackaged!), looped the strap around the trailer, and gave him our honk system: two for reverse, one for stop. Slowly but surely, with all four electric motors working together, my Rivian freed the truck.

Ken shared the video with Electrek:


The electric pickup truck saved the day by pulling a semi-truck with its trailer. That’s impressive. We love to see that.

Add Electrek to your Google News feed.
 
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.


Featured
fromElectrek
slide 1 to 2 of 4
Tesla Supercharger gas station
Tesla converts Shell gas station into Supercharger and it looks awesome
Avatar for Fred Lambert
Fred Lambert
Nov 22 2024
Volkswagen's-ID.2-EV
Volkswagen confirms its low-cost ID.2 EV is still on track to launch, SUV version to follow
Avatar for Peter Johnson
Peter Johnson
Nov 22 2024

Anker’s full Black Friday sale takes $4,434 off power stations, Heybike Mars 2.0 e-bike $600 off, Worx, EGO Power+, Segway, more
Avatar for Reinette LeJeune
Reinette LeJeune
Nov 22 2024
Rivian electric pickup saving the day
Rivian electric truck saves the day by pulling semi truck stuck in mud
Avatar for Fred Lambert
Fred Lambert
Nov 22 2024
Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast.


Comments

Expandcomments
Guides
Rivian
Rivian
Author
Avatar for Fred LambertFred Lambert  fredericlambert
Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek.

You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.com

Through Zalkon.com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas.

Fred Lambert's favorite gear

Zalkon Green Stock Ideas
Get interesting investment ideas by Fred Lambert


ChargePoint Home charger
ChargePoint Home WiFi Enabled Electric Vehicle (EV) Charger

