
News
News
Off Road
Electric Motorcycles
Sportbikes
Racing
Standard & Naked
All news
Reviews
Reviews
Gear
All reviews
Features
Data Deep Dives
Positions
Riding On the Wrong Side
Rants
Repair & Maintenance
Cycleweird
All Features
Videos
Photos
Newsletter

SIGN UP FOR FREE
Chime in with article commenting.

Sign In
Sign Up
Home
News
Electric Motorcycles
Can This EV Startup Prove That Electric Scooters Are Cool? Eh
Would you be willing to pay $10,000 USD for an e-scooter that looks like it came straight off the set of Interstellar?
Can This EV Startup Prove That Electric Scooters Are Cool?
Enrico Punsalang
By: Enrico Punsalang
Nov 19, at 9:27am ET
Share
4
Why do you ride motorcycles? Well, chances are there are tons of different reasons why you do. Perhaps some of you ride because it’s the practical choice. Or maybe some of you ride just for the thrill and freedom it gives you. Heck, maybe some of you ride simply because you think it’s cool and badass.

Regardless of your reasons for choosing to ride, it’s always in manufacturers’ best interest to give us consumers what we want. However, it seems that this hasn’t been the case, particularly in the electric motorcycle industry. I mean, sure, a lot of the new electric motorcycles we see on social media and on the internet are totally badass, oozing with tech, and looking like they came straight off the set of some steampunk movie. But let’s be real—does anyone even actually want them?

Perhaps even more importantly, does anyone have the disposable income to risk on one these machines, especially considering a lot of startups raise funds through massive pre-order campaigns?

Case in point just has to be New York-based startup Infinite Machine. We’ve talked about this company before, and how it wanted to change the perception of scooters from dorky, utility-focused machines to badass, futuristic vehicles that’ll turn heads anywhere you go. And in concept, this all makes sense. But here’s the kicker—selling a $10,000 USD electric scooter that leans in pretty much solely on tech and style just won’t cut it. Not now. And not in this economy where people are trying to get the most out of each and every dollar.


But Infinite Machine is adamant about pushing forward. You see, the company recently raised $9 million USD through an investment by a16z, a venture capital firm that invests in a variety of tech companies. Plus, Infinite Machine aims to begin deliveries of its P1 Launch Edition scooter by 2025, an electric scooter that will set you back a sweet $10,000. That's a heck of a lot for what this is. Take note, you can get a tried and tested commuter scooter like a Honda ADV 160 for less than half that money. Oh, and you can get an actual, real motorcycle—like a Kawasaki Z900RS, perhaps?

Listen, I get it. The Infinite Machine e-scooter is a highly specialized, extremely niche machine that will appeal to people who know exactly what it is they want. But when it comes to running a business, having a very narrow client base isn't exactly the best thing, especially when you're pretty much starting from scratch.

Nevertheless, Infinite Machine is confident that, amidst the closure of electric mobility startups left and right, it has what it takes to brave the storm. In fact, the company’s founders believe that now is a way better time to convince people to make the shift to electric two-wheelers than before.

And to a certain extent, it’s true. Mobility has evolved so much in recent years, and EV two-wheelers are gradually becoming part of the mainstream transport network. But if the goings on in the industry are anything to go by, affordable and accessible are way more important than techie and flashy.

But what do you think? Could Infinite Machine just be the EV startup that breaks the mold? Or will it fall into obscurity like so many before it?


Sources: TechCrunch, Infinite Machine

Share this Story
Got a tip for us? Email: tips@rideapart.com
Top comments
RobertinHouston
RobertinHouston
Nov 22, 2024, 5:53 PM
In the big markets (China, Southeast Asia and India), EVs are already dominating the two and three wheel markets. There were over 50 million electric two and three wheelers sold last year. In scooters, the global market share is already ~60%. Electrics account for over 40% of the global two wheel market and are over 80% of the global three-wheeler market.

As for the rich western markets, scooters can be made cool but they cannot be made safe. To make the obvious point: an American is 27 times more likely to die when riding a motorcycle than when riding in a car.
Solarman2
Solarman2
Nov 22, 2024, 4:05 PM
I'm thinkin' in the EV motorcycle arena one needs comprehensive kits that allow one to pull out all the ICE components of an old motorcycle and put in a BEV drivetrain. In all of this it is the battery pack that needs superior battery chemistries at the cell level and assembled into packs that have some 25-35kWh energy storage capacity with a weight equivalent to the old ICE drivetrain. This could distill down to a battery pack that would have to be constructed with battery cells of 800Wh/kg, substantial compared to today's EV battery cell offerings of around 150-200Wh/kg at the pack level. Just sayin, some of the R&D on metal foil anodes and solid state electrolytes could actually achieve something on the order of a gravimetric energy density of right at 600-1,000Wh/kg or something like 1,300-2,200Wh/L. Some of the research on metal/air batteries has Zinc/air right around 1,400Wh/kg. Now Aluminum/air has a theoretical energy density of 8.1kWh/kg, THAT would be something a 25 pound battery pack in a motorcycle that would have 60kWh gross energy capacity.
Don Reba
Don Reba
Nov 19, 2024, 10:50 PM
I have a feeling only Musk can make something this ugly succeed. Startups should not be imitating the Cybertruck.
Join the conversation
(
4
)
Commenting Guidelines
Trending
The Rawrr Wheelie Helper Proves Kids Get All the Best Stuff
I just can't understand why there aren't more models like this for adults.

Scumbag Car Thief Gets Sweet Justice, Discovers Stolen Motorcycle in the Back
If you're all about that sweet, sweet justice, then this is a two-for-one.

You Need To Read DJI's Lawsuit Against The US DoD, Grab Some Popcorn
It's a point-by-point refutation in the cattiest, pettiest legalese, and it's hilarious.

latest articles

Honda’s Taking Solid-State EV Batteries Seriously, Hopefully Ends with Motorcycles
1m ago
-
Electric Motorcycles
Can-Am Will Knock $3,000 Off a New Maverick R Right Now
22h ago
-
UTV
Should You Buy a Motorcycle In a Box Off The Internet?
23h ago
-
Skills
Is This The Cheapest Liter-Class Adventure Motorcycle?
8:04am
-
Adventure & Dual-Sport
This Tiny Commuter Bike Has To Be the Most Unlikely Cool Naked Sportbike
7:57am
-
Standard & Naked
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Facebook
X
Google News
Instagram
RSS
About Us
Advertising
Contact
rideapart
650 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
USA
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of use

