
News
News
RideApart
Motor1.com
Critical Materials
Charging
Sales
All news
Reviews
Car Reviews
First Drives
Test Drives
Everything We Know
Comparisons
Tech Review
All reviews
Features
Lists
Features
Buying Advice
Sponsored
EV 101
Opinion
All Features
Auto Shows
Videos
Photos
Newsletter

SIGN UP FOR FREE
Chime in with article commenting.

Sign In
Sign Up
Home
News
News
Northvolt, Hailed As Europe’s Future EV Battery Champion, Files For Bankruptcy
"Northvolt's liquidity picture has become dire," the company said in its Chapter 11 petition.
Northvolt facility
Photo by: Northvolt
Iulian Dnistran
By: Iulian Dnistran
Nov 22, at 3:32am ET
Share
7
Northvolt, a Swedish-based lithium-ion battery manufacturer backed by Volkswagen Group and others, has filed for bankruptcy protection in the United States.
The company was hailed as one of Europe's biggest hopes against China's EV battery supremacy.
Northvolt's financial situation deteriorated in a matter of months.
Swedish-based Northvolt, which was seen as one of Europe’s best shots at fighting off China’s electric vehicle battery supremacy, filed for bankruptcy yesterday. The company said in its Chapter 11 petition filed in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas that its “liquidity picture has become dire.”

Northvolt, which has operations in California, has roughly $30 million in cash, which is enough to support it for only about a week. Meanwhile, it has $5.8 billion in debt. The Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection will enable it to continue operations at a reduced scale and pay employees. The battery maker has also secured a $100 million loan from truck maker Scania, its biggest customer and one of the shareholders. Northvolt said the new loan is part of $245 million in financing support for the bankruptcy.

The restructuring process is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2025. Northvolt Ett, the battery maker’s flagship gigafactory in Skellefteå, Sweden, and Northvolt Labs in Västerås, Sweden will remain operational during the restructuring process. Northvolt Germany and Northvolt North America, subsidiaries of Northvolt AB with projects in Germany and Canada, are financed separately and will continue to operate as usual outside of the Chapter 11 process, the company said.


“This decisive step will allow Northvolt to continue its mission to establish a homegrown, European industrial base for battery production,” said Tom Johnstone, interim Chairman of the Board. “Despite near-term challenges, this action to strengthen our capital structure will allow us to capture the continued market demand for vehicle electrification. We are likewise pleased by the strong support we have received from our existing lenders and our customers.”

Northvolt manufactures lithium-ion battery cells used for electric vehicles and stationary storage. Volkswagen Group is its largest shareholder after an investment of roughly $1 billion. BMW Group was also briefly part of the investment group, pledging to pay $2 billion, but the deal fell through after BMW claimed Northvolt failed to deliver batteries on time.

The Swedish battery maker has two fully functional factories, one in Sweden and the other in Poland. Several other facilities are planned. The first customer deliveries were made in 2022, with the main factory in Sweden reportedly capable of producing 60 gigawatt-hours worth of batteries per year, enough for 1 million EVs. However, Northvolt said in its bankruptcy filing that it currently can produce 300,000 batteries per year.

Share this Story
Got a tip for us? Email: tips@insideevs.com
Top comments
M4rtin
M4rtin
Nov 22, 2024, 10:45 AM
Northvolt's problem is that it has been struggling to ramp up production. Yields have been low and progress slow.

The location of the main plant was chosen due to an abundance of cheap power and a large supply of raw materials. However, assembling these to actually working batteries on a large scale is a quite difficult task.
pitounet
pitounet
Nov 22, 2024, 6:43 PM
Another problem is the market has changed quite a lot since Northvolt was created. We have come from a battery starved market to a battery glut.
ACC another European battery company has scaled down its plan, others are just abandoning their plan and CATL is just getting started in Europe.
Cary Chevrolet
Cary Chevrolet
Nov 22, 2024, 2:38 PM
I wonder if it's a lack of a skilled workforce issue.
Join the conversation
(
7
)
Trending
Ownership Experience
What's it like to own an EV?

Buying Tips
Need some EV buying advice?

Deals
Discover deals on EVs here.

latest articles

Tesla Model 3 Performance VS. BMW M3: 'It's Staggering'
9m ago
-
Races & Chases
Mercedes Reinvents Brakes For EVs, Puts Them Inside The Drive Unit
16h ago
-
News
Mercedes Wants EV Battery Packs With Both NMC And LFP Cells
16h ago
-
Battery Tech
Over 40% Of Tesla's Profit Comes From Selling Regulatory Credits
17h ago
-
Industry Outlook
Hyundai, Kia Recall Over 200,000 EVs Because They Might Lose Power While Driving
20h ago
-
Recalls
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU

alt
Mercedes Reinvents Brakes For EVs, Puts Them Inside The Drive Unit

alt
Tesla Model 3 Performance VS. BMW M3: 'It's Staggering'

alt
'It Would Just Be Dumb': Kia Exec On Plan To Kill EV Tax Credit

alt
Mercedes Wants EV Battery Packs With Both NMC And LFP Cells

alt
The Rivian R2 And R3 Probably Won't Be 800-Volt

alt
Over 40% Of Tesla's Profit Comes From Selling Regulatory Credits

alt
Rivian's CEO Thinks It Can Be Besties With Scout

Subscribe to our Newsletter
Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Facebook
X
Flipboard
Google News
YouTube
RSS
About Us
Advertising
Contact
insideEVs
650 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
USA
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of use

