Skip to main content
Go to the Electrek home page
Switch site
Toggle social menu
Toggle dark mode
Toggle search form
Exclusives
Autos
Alt. Transport
Autonomy
Energy
Tesla Shop
Store
Volkswagen Volkswagen ID.2 Volkswagen ID.2all
Volkswagen confirms its low-cost ID.2 EV is still on track to launch, SUV version to follow
Avatar for Peter Johnson
Peter Johnson
 | Nov 22 2024 - 11:08 am PT
29 Comments
Volkswagen's-ID.2-EV
Despite several new EV models facing delays, Volkswagen’s cheapest model yet, the ID.2, is still on track to launch. The company confirmed the entry-level EV will launch as early as late 2025, marking a new “starting point” for the German auto giant.

Volkswagen unveiled the ID.2all concept last March, a new entry-level EV that will start under $27,000 (€25,000).

Thomas Shafer, CEO of Volkswagen Passenger Cars, claimed the ID.2 “shows where we want to take the brand” with advanced tech and “fantastic design.” He wasn’t kidding.

At the LA Auto Show this week, VW’s tech development boss, Kai Grünitz, confirmed to Autocar that the brand’s “ID” electric car lineup is due for a drastic overhaul. Grünitz hinted that “huge improvements” are coming, starting in 2026, with a new style.

The company’s R&D boss said VW is “going back to where we came from” with designs inspired by past icons like the Golf.

Volkswagen’s refreshed look will be based on the ID.2 concept, which head designer Andreas Mindt promises is even better than the concept.

Volkswagen's-ID.2-EV
Volkswagen ID 2all electric vehicle concept (Source: Volkswagen)
Volkswagen’s affordable ID.2 EV is launching soon
Mindt, who was brought back to lead VW’s design, told Autocar earlier this year, “It’s matching 100% to our brand values: it will be stable and likeable with our secret sauce—but in a different way.”

The interior will also feature a new design theme with elements from Volkswagen’s past. One feature we know of is the “Classic” and “Vintage” drive modes, which include a driver display based on the Beetle or Golf era.

Volkswagen's-ID.2-EV-interior
Volkswagen ID 2all “Vintage” mode from the Golf era (Source: Andreas Mindt)
Top comment by Murray Gudmundson Liked by 10 people
So VW announced this car what, 2 years ago, and another year until production? Meanwhile BYD can design and launch 10 new EVs in a year? Isn't this what platforms were supposed to make easier, ie quickly introducing new models on a standard platform?

View all comments
Grünitz confirmed Volkswagen’s ID.2 EV is still on track to launch in late 2025 or early 2026. It will spearhead a new “starting point” for VW. He added, “Customers will see there has been a change, and a much bigger change than expected.”

An SUV version will be unveiled at the Munich Motor Show in September 2025 and a GTI model is also in the works.

Volkswagen's-ID.2-EV-SUV
Volkswagen ID 2all electric SUV (Source: Volkswagen)
Volkswagen’s ID.2 will be the first EV based on its new MEB Entry Platform, while the SUV will follow. The ID.2all concept features up to 279 miles range (450 km).

The company describes the entry-level EV as “as spacious as a Golf” yet “as inexpensive as a Polo.” Although smaller than the Polo, it includes more interior space thanks to an extended wheelbase.

Add Electrek to your Google News feed.
 
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.


Featured
fromElectrek
slide 1 to 2 of 4
Tesla Supercharger gas station
Tesla converts Shell gas station into Supercharger and it looks awesome
Avatar for Fred Lambert
Fred Lambert
Nov 22 2024
Volkswagen's-ID.2-EV
Volkswagen confirms its low-cost ID.2 EV is still on track to launch, SUV version to follow
Avatar for Peter Johnson
Peter Johnson
Nov 22 2024

Anker’s full Black Friday sale takes $4,434 off power stations, Heybike Mars 2.0 e-bike $600 off, Worx, EGO Power+, Segway, more
Avatar for Reinette LeJeune
Reinette LeJeune
Nov 22 2024
Rivian electric pickup saving the day
Rivian electric truck saves the day by pulling semi truck stuck in mud
Avatar for Fred Lambert
Fred Lambert
Nov 22 2024
Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast.


Comments

Expandcomments
Guides
Volkswagen
Volkswagen
Volkswagen ID.2
Volkswagen ID.2
Volkswagen ID.2all
Author
Avatar for Peter JohnsonPeter Johnson  EVPeteJohnson
Peter Johnson is covering the auto industry’s step-by-step transformation to electric vehicles. He is an experienced investor, financial writer, and EV enthusiast. His enthusiasm for electric vehicles, primarily Tesla, is a significant reason he pursued a career in investments. If he isn’t telling you about his latest 10K findings, you can find him enjoying the outdoors or exercising

