
News
Official
Supercars
Industry
Pricing
Green
Classics
All news
Reviews
New Car Reviews
First Drives
Pros & Cons
Comparisons
Reviews
Why Buy?
All reviews
Features
Features
Japan Month
Opinion
Car Buying
Lists
Automotive History
All Features
Auto Shows
Videos
Photos
Newsletter

SIGN UP FOR FREE
Chime in with article commenting.

Sign In
Sign Up
Home
Porsche
News
The New Porsche 911 GT3 RS Manthey Has a Huge Shark Fin
Rear windows are overrated anyway.
Porsche 911 GT3 RS Manthey
Photo by: Porsche
Adrian Padeanu
By: Adrian Padeanu
Updated: Nov 22, at 6:38am ET
Share
2
After Porsche launched the updated 911 GT3 last month, we’re now waiting for the revised RS to break cover. But before that happens, Manthey is spicing up the outgoing Rennsport variant with a factory-backed aerodynamic body kit. The significant upgrade has the automaker’s blessing and won’t void the car’s warranty. As a reminder, Porsche has owned a 51% stake in the Manthey since late 2013.

You’ll immediately notice the rear window is gone. In its place, Manthey mounts a 25% lighter carbon fiber panel with a shark fin antenna derived from the Porsche 963 endurance racer. The large aerodynamic element works with six extra smaller fins mounted on the roof. Their role is to guide the hot air from the front radiators away from the car so that the rear intakes draw cooler air.

Elsewhere, the massive carbon rear wing now has different endplates for increased downforce. For the same purpose, Manthey also made the diffuser bigger. To reduce air resistance, the 911 GT3 RS is fitted with aerodisc wheel covers made from carbon fiber. With all these changes, the track machine generates over 2,204 pounds of downforce at 177 mph.

Top Videos:

There’s more to the Manthey kit beyond the modifications made to the body. Porsche’s track monster has 30% increased spring rates at the front axle and 15% at the rear. Other tweaks include new shock absorbers, racing brake pads (for cars with ceramic-composite brakes), and some miscellaneous items. Goodies vary from body decals and illuminated door sill guards in carbon fiber to LED door projectors and a towing eye you can’t use on public roads.

The upgrade package has been two years in the making, and it involved thousands of miles of testing on European racetracks. Speaking of which, Manthey wants to do a hot lap of the Nürburgring, but weather conditions haven’t been friendly. The goal is to shave off time from the standard GT3 RS’ performance established in October 2022 when the stock car lapped the 12.92-mile (20.8-kilometer) configuration of the famous track in 6 minutes and 49.32 seconds.

It should be able to get closer to the 6:43.30 lap time achieved in June 2021 by a previous-generation 911 GT2 RS fitted with Manthey Racing components. Lest we forget a 992-generation GT2 RS is seemingly on the way, so Porsche and Manthey could shave off even more seconds.

In the meantime, GT3 RS owners can already order the new kit. Countries in the European Union will get it from January next year while non-EU regions will have to wait until March. Pricing isn’t mentioned but the package tailored to the 718 Cayman GT4 RS costs from $53,946 in the United States, plus installation fees.

Porsche 911 GT3 RS with Manthey kit
26
Porsche

Source: Porsche

Share this Story
Got a tip for us? Email: tips@motor1.com
Top comments
Guitarded
Guitarded
Nov 22, 2024, 7:36 PM
Although I have no doubt that this car is spectacular to drive on a track, it's just so...ugly.

I've been a Porsche fan, owner, and employee over the past 30 years, and this car just leaves me feeling so disappointed. The wings and vents and fins and all that aero stuff just detracts from the looks. I guess you can't see the outside when you're inside, so there's that.
pally
pally
Nov 23, 2024, 7:22 AM
I couldn’t agree more, sometimes these aftermarket dudes go way too far, “Less is More”
I looks absolute PUSS……
Join the conversation
(
2
)
Trending
New Car Reviews
Expert analysis on new cars

Opinion
Here's what we think

Lists
The best of the best

latest articles

Driving the Greatest Hot Hatches From Japan: Integra Type R Vs Type S
1m ago
-
Japan Month
Kendrick Lamar’s Next Album Is Named After His Buick Regal GNX
17h ago
-
Celebrity / Entertainment
We Remember That Blue Civic Si
18h ago
-
Japan Month
It's Happening: Chrysler Confirms a Pacifica EV
21h ago
-
Rumors
The Jeep Cherokee Returns Next Year With Hybrid Power
23h ago
-
Manufacturing / Production
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Flipboard
Google News
Instagram
YouTube
RSS
About Us
Advertising
Contact
motor1
650 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
USA
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of use
