Skip to Content

Logo
Research CarsChevron Down Icon
sign in
Car Buying Guide
Expert Reviews
Expert-Tested Gear
What's My Car Worth?
News
HomeNews
Report: Lotus Backtracks on EV Plans, Will Offer Plug-In Hybrids
The plug-in hybrids will feature a range-extender setup, the CEO confirmed, with a turbocharged engine recharging the battery, as reported by Autocar.

By Caleb MillerPublished: Nov 21, 2024
bookmarksSave Article
2024 lotus eletre
Lotus
Lotus CEO Feng Qingfeng has announced at the Guangzhou, China, auto show that Lotus will introduce plug-in-hybrid range-extender powertrains, as reported by Autocar.
The setup will use turbocharged gas engines and will be capable of ultra-rapid charging thanks to a 900-volt electrical architecture.
Lotus has not said when the system will arrive and in which models we can expect to see it.
A few years ago, Lotus announced big plans to go electric. The Emira sports car was set to be the brand's final internal-combustion vehicle, and Lotus has since launched the electric Eletre SUV and Emeya sedan in global markets. These two models were due to be followed by a smaller electric SUV and an EV sports car. But now Lotus is backtracking, announcing that it will introduce plug-in hybrids featuring internal-combustion engines in the near future, as reported by Autocar.

The decision was confirmed by Lotus CEO Feng Qingfeng at the Guangzhou auto show in China, Autocar reported. The range-extender plug-in-hybrid system, which Feng dubbed "Super Hybrid," will combine a turbocharged gas engine with batteries that support ultra-rapid charging. The company aims to use the range-extender gas engine to boost the overall driving range to 680 miles.

2025 lotus emeya
Lotus
Feng didn't specify which models would benefit from this new technology, but the Eletre and Emeya seem like good bets, as well as the smaller upcoming EV SUV that's set to battle the Porsche Macan EV. Feng also didn't mention which gas engine would be used to recharge the battery. The Emira sports car is currently powered by a turbocharged four-cylinder built by Mercedes-AMG, but Lotus could go a different route.

For Lotus's range-extender powertrains, Feng aims to have the internal-combustion engine recharge the battery at a much faster rate than the setups used by other automakers. The cars will also feature a 900-volt electrical architecture that will be able to "flash charge" the battery, with Feng claiming this charging rate will be even faster than battery swapping, a practice used by Chinese EV company Nio.

The move comes as EV sales growth slows, particularly in the luxury space that Lotus participates in. The popularity of plug-in hybrids and range-extender setups have skyrocketed this year in China, which has accounted for 25 percent of the brand's sales so far this year. Lotus has yet to begin sales of either of its new electric models, the Eletre and the Emeya, in the United States.

More on Lotus EVs
2025 lotus emeya
2025 Lotus Emeya
2024 lotus eletre
2024 Lotus Eletre Is More Plush Than Performer
lotus theory 1 concept
Lotus Debuts Funky-Looking 986-HP Theory 1 Concept
Headshot of Caleb Miller
Caleb Miller
Associate News Editor
Caleb Miller began blogging about cars at 13 years old, and he realized his dream of writing for a car magazine after graduating from Carnegie Mellon University and joining the Car and Driver team. He loves quirky and obscure autos, aiming to one day own something bizarre like a Nissan S-Cargo, and is an avid motorsports fan.
Ready to ride shotgun with us?
Sign up for the smartest car news out there.

Email address
What's your email address?
LET'S GO.
By signing up, I agree to the Terms of Use (including the dispute resolution procedures) and have reviewed the Privacy Notice.

Watch Next
 
Play Iconpreview for HDM All sections playlist - Car & Driver US:
News
2019 jeep cherokee
Jeep Cherokee Hybrid Replacement Coming in 2025

insight drivetrains efficiency hybrid powertrain workshop sindelfingen 2024
Mercedes-Benz Drives Forward to the Future

2025 porsche 911 gt3 rs manthey racing
Porsche 911 GT3 RS Adds Manthey Racing Track Kit

2024 vinfast vf9
VinFast Starts Delivering the 2024 VF9 In the U.S.

2025 audi rs e tron gt performance front
912-HP Audi RS e-tron GT Performance Costs $168K

2026 kia ev9 gt front
2026 Kia EV9 GT Debuts Packing 501 Electric Horses

2026 kia sportage
2026 Kia Sportage Refreshed with Chunkier Styling

2025 kia ev6
2025 Kia EV6 GT Now Packs 641 HP and Pseudo Shifts

honda solid state battery production facility 2024
Honda Gets Closer to Making Solid-State Batteries

2025 fiat 500e giorgio armani edition
Fiat 500e Goes Luxury with Giorgio Armani Edition

2025 volkwagen tiguan
2025 VW Tiguan Adds Power, Drops a Row of Seats

2025 hyundai ioniq 9
2026 Hyundai Ioniq 9 Achieves Flagship Status

Logo
x
youtube
facebook
instagram
About Us
News
All Car Rankings
Newsletter
Contact Us
Expert Reviews
Best SUVs
Give a Gift
How We Test Cars
Stories and Features
Best 3-Row SUVs
Subscribe
How We Rate Cars
Expert-Tested Gear
Best Pickup Trucks
Hearst Autos
Customer Service
What's My Car Worth?
Best EVs
RSS Feed
Hearst Autos - A Part of Hearst Digital Media
A Part of Hearst Digital Media

We may earn a commission for purchases made through our links.
