
News
Official
Supercars
Industry
Pricing
Green
Classics
All news
Reviews
New Car Reviews
First Drives
Pros & Cons
Comparisons
Reviews
Why Buy?
All reviews
Features
Features
Japan Month
Opinion
Car Buying
Lists
Automotive History
All Features
Auto Shows
Videos
Photos
Newsletter

SIGN UP FOR FREE
Chime in with article commenting.

Sign In
Sign Up
Home
Hyundai
News
Hyundai Might Sell Rebadged GM Trucks
A wild report alleges the Hyundai-GM partnership could involve badge-engineered pickups.
Chevrolet Silverado
Photo by: Chevrolet
Adrian Padeanu
By: Adrian Padeanu
Nov 22, at 2:00am ET
Share
3
Seemingly out of nowhere, Hyundai and General Motors signed a Memorandum of Understanding in September. If the MoU evolves into an actual partnership, the two companies will jointly develop and build cars. A fresh report from South Korea alleges Hyundai might slap its badge on GM trucks and vice versa. According to the Pulse business newspaper, the two are also considering teaming up to engineer new trucks for Latin America.

As someone who grew up in a city where Daewoo used to make cars before it went bust in the 1990s, I can only hope things turn out better for the Hyundai-GM duo. The tie-up is still in its infancy since negotiations began only a few months ago. Pulse reports Hyundai Chairman Euisun Chung traveled to the United States earlier this month to chat with GM CEO Mary Barra.

While GM is well-versed in pickup trucks, Hyundai only has the unibody Santa Cruz, the cabover Porter, and the body-on-frame Tasman through its sister brand Kia. If the report is accurate, the Asian brand could put its “H” badge on a Colorado, Silverado, Montana, Canyon, Sierra, etc. It’s unclear whether GM-based Hyundai trucks would be available in markets where the donor pickups from Chevy and GMC are already sold.

Top Videos:

In the meantime, Pulse cites a Hyundai official saying that “during the latest meeting, the two leaders reviewed the progress made since the MoU was signed. We are exploring various areas for bilateral collaboration, ranging from vehicle development to future energy solutions.”

I certainly didn't have GM-based Hyundai trucks on my bingo card but given the difficulties the automotive industry is facing, it makes sense that more and more automakers are willing to team up. Doing so allows them to speed up the development of new products while cutting costs. In theory, this is a win-win situation, but history has taught us things don't always go as the parties involved had hoped.


Source: Pulse

Share this Story
Got a tip for us? Email: tips@motor1.com
Top comments
HottRod
HottRod
Nov 22, 2024, 5:23 PM
With all their resources, how ironic would it be if Cadillac actually gets some well-engineered, genuinely competitive ICE crossovers from Hyundai/Genesis?
Throwback
Throwback
Nov 22, 2024, 1:50 PM
I hope it's not just a badge job if true. Hyundai should take the platform and drop their own designed top hat on it.
Mitchell Cooper
Mitchell Cooper
Nov 22, 2024, 8:41 AM
Chevrolet will be able to rebadge the Hyundai Santa Cruz to compete against the maverick and get to rebadge some other Hyundai products this might also allow Hyundai to build more of their lineup in the USA to avoid tariffs
Join the conversation
(
3
)
Trending
New Car Reviews
Expert analysis on new cars

Opinion
Here's what we think

Lists
The best of the best

latest articles

Driving the Greatest Hot Hatches From Japan: Integra Type R Vs Type S
1m ago
-
Japan Month
Kendrick Lamar’s Next Album Is Named After His Buick Regal GNX
17h ago
-
Celebrity / Entertainment
We Remember That Blue Civic Si
18h ago
-
Japan Month
It's Happening: Chrysler Confirms a Pacifica EV
21h ago
-
Rumors
The Jeep Cherokee Returns Next Year With Hybrid Power
23h ago
-
Manufacturing / Production
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Flipboard
Google News
Instagram
YouTube
RSS
About Us
Advertising
Contact
motor1
650 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
USA
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of use
