
News
Official
Supercars
Industry
Pricing
Green
Classics
All news
Reviews
New Car Reviews
First Drives
Pros & Cons
Comparisons
Reviews
Why Buy?
All reviews
Features
Features
Japan Month
Opinion
Car Buying
Lists
Automotive History
All Features
Auto Shows
Videos
Photos
Newsletter

SIGN UP FOR FREE
Chime in with article commenting.

Sign In
Sign Up
Home
Volkswagen
Tiguan
News
2025 Volkswagen Tiguan: This Is It
VW gave the SUV an all-new design, more power, and an improved cabin.
2025 Volkswagen Tiguan
Photo by: Volkswagen
Anthony Alaniz
By: Anthony Alaniz
Nov 20, at 8:00pm ET
Share
11
The third-generation Volkswagen Tiguan is all-new for 2025. The updated sheet metal should make it more appealing to American sensibilities, while several other improvements modernize the cabin. But VW will only offer the SUV in a two-row configuration going forward.

The new Tiguan packs an updated turbocharged 2.0-liter EA888 engine. It’s more potent than the outgoing unit, making 201 horsepower instead of 184, and pairs with an eight-speed automatic gearbox. Towing capacity increases from 1,500 pounds to 1,800 on 4Motion all-wheel drive models.

Volkswagen isn't ready to provide fuel economy figures, but Volkswagen expects it’ll improve. In addition to the extra power, the 2025 Tiguan is also lighter than the second-gen model by around 170 pounds, which the automaker attributes to the use of aluminum in the suspension and body structure.

Top Videos:

The 2025 Tiguan rides on the MQB Evo platform instead of the MQB Classic of the previous generation, and it wears all-new sheet metal. It has a shorter rear overhang, yet it's larger than the outgoing model. The new design is more athletic, with a sharp crease down the body, squared wheel wells, and a rear spoiler. Seventeen-inch wheels are standard, with 19- and 20-inch options available. 

Volkswagen made its 10.25-inch Digital Cockpit standard across the new Tiguan range. It’ll sit next to the standard 12.9-inch infotainment display or the optional 15.0-inch unit on the dash. Two-zone Climatronic automatic climate control is also standard, with three-zone optional.

Between the seats is a physical volume knob with a screen that occupants can click to access the drive modes or its new Atmospheres that synchronizes the ambient lighting and audio. VW also increased the center console storage capacity to 7.6 liters. 

Buyers can also upgrade the sound system to a new 12-speaker Harmon Kardon system. VW improved the standard wireless charging, upping output from 5 to 15 watts and adding a cooler. It also has a money clip-style holder to hold the phone firm against the charging pad.

The Tiguan also comes with four additional airbags, giving it a total of 10. VW's IQ.Drive suite is also standard on the SUV, bringing forward collision warning, adaptive cruise control, and more. A head-up display is optional, while adaptive front lighting is standard. 

VW didn’t provide any pricing information for the model. The 2024 Tiguan starts at $30,305 (the price includes the $1,425 destination charge). The Tiguan is Volkswagen’s best-selling nameplate in the US, and this year's sales are up 19 percent for the crossover. 


Source: Volkswagen

Share this Story
Got a tip for us? Email: tips@motor1.com
Top comments
Gunter de Boer
Gunter de Boer
Nov 21, 2024, 11:16 PM
I wonder if it will be as unreliable as the outgoing Tiguan?
MattNZ
MattNZ
Nov 22, 2024, 9:56 PM
Do you ever say anything constructive or just the same “VW unreliable” comment?
William C
William C
Nov 21, 2024, 6:50 AM
This thing looks like a mix of a Toyota, Mitsubishi, and BMW X1 from the rear 3/4. Nothing VW looking about this. When are car manufacturers going to stop putting stupid black inserts into the bumpers... and removed 3rd row capability? So, now it's just a little bit bigger version of the Taos. Seems dumb. That 3rd row was a great selling point as one of the cheaper options out there. Whereas options like the Sante Fe looks to have taken a step forward, this just seems like a design by committee mediocre update.
MattNZ
MattNZ
Nov 22, 2024, 10:19 PM
You’re criticizing the design of the Tiguan yet using the new Sante Fe as an example of good design?
Join the conversation
(
11
)
Trending
New Car Reviews
Expert analysis on new cars

Opinion
Here's what we think

Lists
The best of the best

latest articles

Driving the Greatest Hot Hatches From Japan: Integra Type R Vs Type S
1m ago
-
Japan Month
Kendrick Lamar’s Next Album Is Named After His Buick Regal GNX
17h ago
-
Celebrity / Entertainment
We Remember That Blue Civic Si
18h ago
-
Japan Month
It's Happening: Chrysler Confirms a Pacifica EV
21h ago
-
Rumors
The Jeep Cherokee Returns Next Year With Hybrid Power
23h ago
-
Manufacturing / Production
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Receive exciting Automotive news, updates, and special offers straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Follow Us
Facebook
X
LinkedIn
Flipboard
Google News
Instagram
YouTube
RSS
About Us
Advertising
Contact
motor1
650 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10022
USA
Privacy policy
Cookie policy
Cookie Settings
Terms of use
